OKTA-686238 OIN SIE automated testing (#4787)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/submit-oin-app/main/index.md

Review the [OIN submission requirements](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq) before you start your submission. There are artifacts and technical details that you need to provide during the submission process.

> **Note:** As a best practice, add two or three extra admin users in your Okta org to manage the integration. This ensures that your team can access the integration for updates in the future. See [Add users manually](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-usgp-add-users) and ensure that the super admin or the app admin role is assigned to the admin users.

Start your integration submission for OIN publication:

> 1. Sign in to your [Developer Edition org](/login/) as a user with admin privileges.

Author: Thanks @ykrestyanov-okta! I updated this line. Please review.

> **Note:** You need to have the org admin role assigned to you before you can create users in Okta.

To assign test users to your integration:

1. Continue from the OIN Wizard > **Test your integration experience** > **Generate instance** pages. Alternatively, if you aren't in the OIN Wizard, go to **Applications** > **Applications** > your app integration instance in the Admin Console.
    > **Note:**  If you aren't in the OIN Wizard, ensure that you've generated your app instance from the OIN Wizard.
1. From your app instance page, click the **Assignments** tab.
1. Click **Assign** and then select either **Assign to People** or **Assign to Groups**.
1. Enter the appropriate people or groups that you want to have SSO into your app, and then click **Assign** for each.
1. Verify the user-specific attributes for any people that you add, and then select **Save and Go Back**.
1. Click **Done**.

> 1. Click **Begin testing** (upper-right corner) from the OIN Wizard. The **Test your integration experience** page appears. If you're not in the OIN Wizard, go to **Your OIN Integration** > **Select your protocol**  > **Configure your integration** > **Test your integration experience**. Continue to the [Application instances for testing] section to include your instance for testing in the OIN Submission Tester.

Author: Thank you. I'll add this in another commit.

    After you click **Add to Tester** for the instance, the corresponding test cases are populated with the instance name and the **Run test** option is enabled in the OIN Submission Tester.

* Click **Remove from Tester** to disable the test cases associated with the instance from the OIN Submission Tester.

    After you click **Remove from Tester** for the instance, the instance name and test results are removed for the corresponding test cases in the OIN Submission Tester. The **Run test** option is also disabled.

#### Deactivate an app instance in your org

Since the Okta Developer Edition org has a limit of five active app instances, deactivate any instances you're not using in the org.

To deactivate an instance from the OIN Wizard:

1. Go to **Test your integration experience** > **Application instances for testing**.
1. Click **Clear filters** to see all instances in your org.
1. Disable the **ACTIVE** toggle next to the app instance you want to deactivate.

Alternatively, to deactivate an app instance without the OIN Wizard, see [Deactivate app integrations](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-apps-deactivate).

#### Update an app instance in your org

> If you need to edit the app instance from the OIN Wizard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit the app instance from the OIN Wizard, follow these steps:
```

1. Go to **Test your integration experience** > **Application instances for testing**.
1. Click **Clear filters** to see all instances in your org if you don't see the instance that you want to edit.
1. Select **Update instance details** from the more icon (![three-dot more icon](/img/icons/more-odys.svg)) next to the app instance you want to update. The instance details page appears.
1. Edit the app instance. You can edit app instance settings or [assign users to your app instance](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext_Apps_Apps_Page-assign).
1. Return to the OIN Wizard:

    * Click **Begin testing** (upper-right corner) for the current submission instance.

        The **Test your integration experience** page appears.

    *  Click **Go to integrations** (upper-right corner) for the backwards-compatible instance.

        The **Your OIN Integrations** dashboard appears.

>         Go to your integration submission > **Configure your integration**  > **Get started with testing** to continue with testing your integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Go to your integration submission > **Configure your integration** > **Get started with testing** to continue with testing your integration.
```

> **Note:** After you edit a test instance, any previous test results for that instance are invalid and removed from the OIN Submission Tester. Rerun all the required tests again with the new instance.

### OIN Submission Tester

> The **Test your integration experience** page includes the integrated OIN Submission Tester, a plugin that runs the minimal tests required to ensure that your sign-in flow works as expected. Ideally, you want to execute other variations of these test cases without the OIN Submission Tester. Try negative and edge test cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Test your integration experience** page includes the integrated OIN Submission Tester, which is a plugin that runs the minimal tests required to ensure that your sign-in flow works as expected. Ideally, you want to execute other variations of these test cases without the OIN Submission Tester. Try negative and edge test cases.
```

You can't submit your integration in the OIN Wizard until all required tests in the OIN Submission Tester pass.

> **Notes:**
> * The OIN Submission Tester requires you to trust the current Okta Developer Edition org if you're using multiple Okta orgs.
> * Click **Initialize Tester** if you're using the OIN Submission Tester for the first time.
> * Click **Refresh Tester session** for a new test session if the OIN Submission Tester session expired.

The OIN Submission Tester includes the mechanism to test the following flows:

* IdP flow
* SP flow
* Just-In-Time (JIT) provisioning (with IdP flow)
* Just-In-Time (JIT) provisioning (with SP flow)

> **Note:** The **JIT provisioning (with SP flow)** test case appears in the OIN Submission Tester if your integration supports JIT and only the SP flow. If your integration supports JIT, IdP, and SP flows, then a successful **JIT provisioning (with IdP flow)** test is sufficient for submission.

The test cases for these flows appear in the **Test integration using the OIN Submission Tester** section depending on your OIN Wizard [test information](#test-information).

> See [Run test](#run-tests) to run each of the test cases.

Reviewer: I made this a note because it's buried in a sea of text otherwise :) 

```suggestion
> **Note:** See [Run test](#run-tests) for the steps on how to run each test case.
```

Author: Thanks! I'll update this with another commit.

    The OIN Submission Tester executes the following steps for the JIT provisioning test case:
    1. Creates a new user in Okta and assigns them to the test app instance.
    {style="list-style-type:lower-alpha"}
    1. Open an incognito browser window to sign in to Okta.
    1. Sign in to Okta as the new test user.
    1. Select the app tile.
    1. Wait for confirmation that the new test user signed in and was provisioned in your app (you're responsible to verify this step).

1. Verify that the test user signed in to your app with the correct first name, last name, and email attributes.

    > **Note:** You can go back to the OIN Submission Tester window and expand the test case to view network traffic details for this test run. The **NETWORK TRAFFIC** tab contains API calls to Okta with the test user details in the request payload.

1. Select **The user successfully signed in to your app** in the upper-right **Test in progress** dialog to confirm that the JIT provisioning IdP flow test passed.
1. Click **Continue** from the **Test in progress** dialog to sign out of your app.

    The OIN Submission Tester executes the following steps after you click **Continue**:

>     1. Sign out of the app and close the incognito browser window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Signs out of the app and closes the incognito browser window.
```

    {style="list-style-type:lower-alpha"}

>     1. Unassign the test user from the app instance in Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Unassigns the test user from the app instance in Okta.
```

    1. Deletes the test user from Okta.
    1. Records the test run result and timestamp in the OIN Submission Tester.

>     1. Redirected you back to the OIN Submission Tester.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Redirects you back to the OIN Submission Tester.
```

1. Click the **JIT provisioning (w/ IdP flow)** expand icon (![chevron-down expand icon](/img/icons/chevron-down-odys.svg)) to view the test steps and network traffic details for the test run.

> **Note:** The test user account created in your app from JIT provisioning persists after the JIT provisioning test. The OIN Submission Tester only removes the temporary test user account from your Okta org. It's your responsibility to manage the JIT test user accounts in your app.

##### Run the JIT provisioning with SP flow test

You're only required to pass one JIT provisioning test case to submit your integration. The OIN Submission Tester includes the **JIT provisioning (w/ SP flow)** test case if you support JIT and only the SP flow. If your integration supports JIT, IdP, and SP flows, then a successful **JIT provisioning (w/ IdP flow)** test is sufficient for submission.

Similar to the [JIT provisioning with IdP flow test](#run-the-jit-provisioning-with-idp-flow-test), the OIN Submission Tester creates a temporary Okta test user account for you to verify that JIT provisioning was successful. The Tester then removes the test user account from Okta to complete the test.

> To run the JIT provisioning with SP flow test, follow the same steps in [Run the JIT provisioning with IdP flow test](#run-the-jit-provisioning-with-idp-flow-test). The difference between the JIT provisioning with SP and IdP is that the OIN Submission Tester opens an incognito browser window to sign in to your app first instead of to Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the JIT provisioning with SP flow test, follow the same steps in [Run the JIT provisioning with IdP flow test](#run-the-jit-provisioning-with-idp-flow-test). The difference between the JIT provisioning with SP and IdP tests is that wthe OIN Submission Tester opens an incognito browser window to sign in to your app first instead of to sign in to Okta.
```

Author: Thanks! I'm going to update this in another commit.

#### Failed tests

If any of your test cases fail, investigate and resolve the failure before you submit your integration. You can only submit integrations that have successfully passed all the required tests in the OIN Submission Tester.

If you have to update SSO or test detail properties in your submission to resolve your failed test cases, then [generate a new app integration instance for testing](#generate-instances-for-testing). [Assign test users to your new integration instance](#assign-test-users-to-your-integration-instance) before you execute all your SSO test cases again.

> **Note:** You don't have to generate a new app instance for every failed test scenario. If you have an environment issue or if you forgot to assign a user, you can fix your configuration and run the tests again. Generate a new instance if you need to modify an SSO property, such as an integration variable, a redirect URI, or an ACS URL.

It's good practice to deactivate your test instances that aren't in use. You can later delete the instance to clean your app integration list.

> If you have questions or need more support, email Okta developer support at developer@okta.com and include your test results. To obtain your test results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have questions or need more support, email [Okta developer support](developer@okta.com) and include your test results. To obtain your test results:
```

1. From the OIN Submission Tester, click **Export results** (upper-right corner) to download a JSON-formatted file of all your test results.

> All required tests in the OIN Submission Tester must have passed within 48 hours before you can submit your integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All required tests in the OIN Submission Tester must have passed within 48 hours of submitting your integration.
```

## Update your integration

You can modify your published SSO integration from the OIN Wizard.

When you edit a published OIN integration, you need to test the SSO flow for the updated version and the published version for backwards compatibility. Testing the published version for backwards compatibility ensures that SSO to your app still works for customers who have already installed your published OIN integration. After you successfully test the updated and published versions of your integration, resubmit it to the OIN team.

> **Note:** When you edit your published OIN integration, your previous PUBLISHED status and date are overwritten with the DRAFT status and current date.

To update a previously published OIN integration:

1. Sign in to your Okta Developer Edition org as a user with either app admin or super admin roles.
1. Go to **Applications** > **Your OIN Integrations** in the Admin Console.
1. Click your published integration to update from the dashboard. Your published OIN submission appears in read-only mode.
1. From the **This integration is read-only** information box, click **Edit integration**.

>     > **Note:** If you open a submission in DRAFT status, it's not in read-only mode and the **Edit integration** option isn't available. Continue to edit your draft submission like to a new submission. See [Start a submission](#start-a-submission).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:** If you open a submission in DRAFT status, it's not in read-only mode and the **Edit integration** option isn't available. Continue to edit your draft submission as a new submission. See [Start a submission](#start-a-submission).
```

    > **Note:** **Generate instance** is disabled if you have five active instances in your org. [Deactivate instances](#deactivate-an-app-instance-in-your-org) that you're not using.

    If the OIN Wizard detects an instance based on your published integration, the dialog doesn't appear. This is usually the case if you tested and submitted your published integration from the same org.

1. Continue to update your integration in the **Select your protocol**, **Configure your integration**, and **Test your integration experience** > **Testing information** pages. See [Update integration considerations](#update-integration-considerations) for backwards compatibility with integration variables.
1. Click **Test your integration** to open the **Test your integration experience** > OIN Submission Tester.

>     The **Required app instances** box contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The **Required app instances** box contains the following items:
```

>     * The instances you need to test the **PUBLISHED VERSION** of your OIN integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The instances that you need to test the **PUBLISHED VERSION** of your OIN integration.
```

>     * The instances you need to test the **CURRENT VERSION** of your integration submission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The instances that you need to test the **CURRENT VERSION** of your integration submission.
```

1. Run your tests from the OIN Submission Tester. See [OIN Submission Tester](#oin-submission-tester).
1. [Submit your integration](#submit-your-integration) if all your tests passed. If you have errors, see [Failed tests](#failed-tests) to resolve the issues.

### Update integration considerations

* If you have an existing SAML SSO integration and you want to update advanced properties that aren't available in the OIN Wizard, contact <oin@okta.com>.

* When you update an integration that's already published, be mindful to preserve backwards compatibility for your integration. Older instances of your integration could be in use by Okta customers.

   If your update introduces new variables and you're using dynamic URLs, ensure that your test cases cover a variety of scenarios with different possible values for those variables. The newly introduced variables aren't populated for older instances of your integration. For example:

   <StackSnippet snippet="backward-compatible-eg" />

## Submit your integration

After you successfully test your integration, you're ready to submit.

The OIN Wizard checks the following:

> * All required instances are detected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All required instances are detected
```

> * All required instances are active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All required instances are active
```

> * All required tests passed within the last 48 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All required tests passed within the last 48 hours
```

> **Submit integration** is enabled once all these requirements are met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Submit integration** is enabled after all these requirements are met.
```
